Coming off the wake of the World Cup, the continent of Africa shone very brightly. Things were certainly looking up with five African teams on the world stage. The continent was exhilarated to see a star studded Moroccan side make it all the way to the third-place match despite losing to a strong Croatian side. Despite this, throughout the tournament, it was clear to see that there were a number of players that bore African features, yet were representing rival nations. This was displayed for all to see as FIFA has claimed that around 1.5 billion people watched the 2022 World Cup final live on television with likely millions more who weren’t accounted for. This may simply look like a duel between a European and a South American powerhouse respectively, but in truth many Africans felt as if they were supporting their own when the French National team appeared before the world in their famous blue and gold. This is due to the fact that of the 23 man squad France brought to Qatar, 10 players could trace their origins back to Africa. When players like Upamecano, Tchouameni, and Dembele are on the ball, all of Africa rejoices as it feels as if one of their own have succeeded. Yet the question can be raised as to why this is?

This dilemma however can be traced all the way back to the early 1900s in which a significant part of Africa was colonized by either Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, or Italy. This conundrum also stretches much farther than just the current French National Team side. Arsenal’s starboy and one of shining lights amongst a young English side is that of Bukayo Saka. A skillful midfielder with a left foot blessed by God, Saka has quickly turned into one of the most dazzling talents in World football. With his bubbly personality and fearlessness when facing defenders, he is the poster child for boys and girls all throughout London to strive for their goals and dream big. Yet when Saka is portrayed, oftentimes his Nigerian heritage is left out of the picture. It is much easier to frame him as this London schoolboy who rose through the ranks and became an integral part of the Three Lions Side.

The Premier League is not the only league to be blessed with African born talent. With the void Messi left in packing his bags for Paris to join the French giant, Paris Saint Germain, many fans were worried what a new look side may look like. However, many felt their fears assuaged when Guinea-Bissau prodigy Ansu Fati arrived on the scene at the Camp Nou donning the famous FC Barcelona kit. With his blistering pace and his eye for goal, he was one of the shining hopes of the Catalan side looking to rebuild after the retirement and departure of many former stars—stars that under the tutelage of Pep Guardiola became one of the most feared clubs in Europe. Another cog in the engine intended to bolster the Catalan side was the Netherlands International, Memphis Depay. Born to a Ghanaian father and a Dutch Mother, he chose to represent the Holland side. With the Netherlands being an immensely successful side, having reached the World Cup Final in 2010, Depay was easily swayed to don the famous orange and white. These examples are just a few of the many shining lights in the African footballing community that have pledged their allegiance to other nations. Despite this, there are still a number of footballers who still decided to represent their home African Nation even if it meant possibly less success. A great example of this would be that of Pierre Emerick Aubameyang. The former Arsenal Captain chose Gabon over the France National Team despite being eligible to play for both sides. Gabon as a nation has still yet to qualify for a World Cup, and even despite having numerous talented players on their roster, this rang true last year as well they fell short in their qualifying group. Despite this though, Pierre is one of many who has started a precedent of returning back to your home nation and representing them regardless of possible success playing for a European side.

Africa is not short of talent in the footballing world and some of the world’s best and brightest have direct ties to the continent. However, with European nations shining ever so brightly keeping talent in house has posed to be quite a challenge. In moving forward, young players of African Descent should speak to those who came before them. The legends of their nations who chose to wear the crest of their motherland proudly and unapologetically. Although success on the world stage may not come overnight, the building blocks of success will be the youth footballers who choose to use their talents to show the world the richness that is African football.

## Sources

[The Other African Footballers in the World Cup](https://www.okayafrica.com/african-football-world-cup-players/)

[How many teams in FIFA World Cup 2022 and 2026? List of nations qualified to Qatar with expansion set for North America tournament](https://www.sportingnews.com/us/soccer/news/how-many-teams-fifa-world-cup-2022-2026-list-expansion/iaw2fwijgicmwfdepf2aezty)

[FIFA World Cup Final Beat Super Bowl LVI By More Than One BILLION Viewers In TV Ratings](https://www.si.com/fannation/soccer/futbol/news/how-fifa-world-cup-final-beat-super-bowl-lvi-in-tv-ratings)

[Grade 8 - Term 3: The Scramble for Africa: late 19th century](https://www.sahistory.org.za/article/grade-8-term-3-scramble-africa-late-19th-century#:~:text=By%201900%20a%20significant%20part,about%20establishing%20colonial%20state%20systems)
