This year’s Chicago Marathon was certainly filled with many scintillating performances and a number of personal records broken. Kenyans largely dominated the field with winners of both men’s and women’s races hailing from the East African Nation. John Korir was the winner of the men’s race clocking in with a time of  2 hours, 2 minutes and 44 seconds. This marks Korir’s first ever win in the Chicago Marathon having run in both 2022 and 2023 and while clocking some of his best career times, just fell short of the top of the podium. Korir is no stranger to success though having won the LA Marathon in 2021 and 2022 respectively. Korir was just 2 minutes and 9 minutes shy of beating last year’s marathon record of 2:00:35 held by the late great Kelvin Kiptum. Many predicted Kiptum was the future of long distance racing since running blistering times at such a young age will naturally attract global notoriety. However, he met his demise in a most tragic fashion being the victim of a car accident in mid February of last year at the age of 24. 

The real star of the show though was the display put on by Ruth Chepngetich in the women’s circuit, finishing the marathon in a staggering 2 hours, 9 minutes and 56 seconds. This is the first time in history that a female runner has ever been recorded finishing a marathon sub 2 hours and 10 minutes. This is a massively historical moment with many believing such times would take much longer to be realized and some having even speculated that they would never witness such a feat in their lifetime. The mantra of “records are meant to be broken,” also met its head when Kenyan runner, Elioud Kipchoge, ran the world’s first ever sub 2 hour marathon in mid October of 2019 which was a feat many also thought to be impossible. Chepngetich’s newest record is a testament to the extreme limits the human body can be pushed and further pushes the narrative of just how fast a human being can run a marathon. To put into perspective just how fast Chepngetich was running, this means, on average, she was running at a pace of 4 minutes 57 seconds per mile over the course of 26 miles. 

For further perspective, Medical News Today, in accordance with the Army Physical Fitness Test, tracked the percentiles of which both men and women should reasonably be able to run 2 miles. The top 1% of Males between the ages of 17-26 clocked in at an average of 6 minutes and 30 seconds. The top 1% of Females between the ages of 17-26 ran at an average time of 7 minutes and 48 seconds. This just goes to show just how off the charts professional long distance runners are and how maintaining such speed road running is a feat reserved for those possessing both elite athleticism and physical endurance. With the New York Marathon coming up next month time will tell who will top the men’s and women’s groups respectively. However, this year’s Chicago Marathon will be very tough to beat considering the amazing shows of athleticism that were on display for all to see. Yet, records are meant to be broken, so for all road running enthusiasts, it is likely to be a thrilling and captivating next twelve months!


## Sources
John Korir Wins the Men’s Race at the 2024 Chicago Marathon, [www.runnersworld.com/news/a62588283/john-korir-wins-mens-race-2024-chicago-marathon/](www.runnersworld.com/news/a62588283/john-korir-wins-mens-race-2024-chicago-marathon/).  Accessed 15 Oct. 2024.

Staff, NBC Chicago. “Who Won the Bank of America Chicago Marathon? Here’s a Roundup of Top Finishes.” *NBC Chicago*, NBC Chicago, 13 Oct. 2024, [www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/who-won-the-chicago-marathon-2024-winners/3572463/](www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/who-won-the-chicago-marathon-2024-winners/3572463/)

“Average Mile Time by Age and Sex.” *Medical News Today*, MediLexicon International, [www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/326263#average-mile-time](www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/326263#average-mile-time). Accessed 15 Oct. 2024. 

