Sprawling over 905,000 square miles, the [Democratic Republic of Congo](https://worldwithoutgenocide.org/genocides-and-conflicts/congo) (DRC) is heralded as the [world’s most minerally](https://worldwithoutgenocide.org/genocides-and-conflicts/congo) wealthy country and the largest in Sub-Saharan Africa. From significant deposits of ore, gold, coltan, cobalt, diamonds, and home to the world’s deepest river and the third-largest by discharge volume, my home is the portrait of mineral wealth. While some may allege our plight is due to the resource curse—I contend that the misfortunes visited upon my country from time immemorial continue today not merely by the violence and presence of foreign actors like the Rwandan Defence Force or the [Rwandan-backed M23](https://www.voanews.com/a/un-deaths-near-3-000-in-fighting-for-drc--goma/7964371.html) but by a factor more amorphous and no less deadly: apathy.

Earning monickers like [“The Heart of Darkness”](https://lithub.com/how-heart-of-darkness-revealed-the-horror-of-congos-rubber-trade/) from the famous novel by Joseph Conrad and the [“rape capital of the world”](https://www.cnn.com/2011/11/24/world/africa/democratic-congo-rape/index.html) from the horrific scale and prevalence of sexual violence taking place in Eastern DRC, the Democratic Republic of Congo has become associated with incomprehensible brutality. Its place in our global lexicon as a breeding ground for corruption, violence, and instability renders unlikely the case that people are merely unaware of the reality on the ground. Surviving King Leopold’s demonic rule during the [Belgian Congo]( https://www.britannica.com/place/Belgian-Congo) and now currently facing a conflict with a death toll of approximately [6 million](https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/campaigns/2024/10/why-is-the-democratic-republic-of-congo-wracked-by-conflict/#:~:text=Fighting%20between%20armed%20forces%20in,killed%20by%20hunger%20and%20disease.)—the bloodiest since WWII--my home has never known true peace. With staggering poverty, epidemics like Ebola, and worsening conflicts in the East, the present moment is a dark one in the DRC. This begs the question: how does the world not react to what is happening in the DRC? 

Thirty years later, the conflict rages on, claiming over 7,000 lives since January 31st by the recent Rwandan conquest of[ Goma](  https://www.voanews.com/a/un-deaths-near-3-000-in-fighting-for-drc--goma/7964371.html), Bukavu, and Walikale—the largest cities in Eastern DRC with a combined population of over 3 million. Another surge of protests with glimmers of sky blue, yellow, and red blowing in the wind and chants of #FreeCongo reverberating on streets in Brussels, DC, and New York. What is most audibly clear, however, is the deafening sound of the silence within which this rage is contained. How can individuals fight for a country when the world, it seems, has compartmentalized their home into a category so far from their consciousness that most do not seem to acknowledge its vitality in their lives?

 From the Tesla-owning Silicon Valley founder who might not be able to identify the DRC on the World Map to the soldier riding in a fighter jet aircraft who just finished listening to a Joe Rogan podcast; the DRC and its minerals are needed for the superalloys used in jet engines and batteries in Tesla vehicles yet our vitality is disregarded. 

This juxtaposition between the apathy the global community displays to our suffering and our critical role in the modern technological landscape makes perfect sense because the former exists to support the latter. It is necessary for our suffering to go unnoticed so as to allow the plunder of our country to continue and the minerals therein to be stolen and enjoyed by those who tout themselves as climate activists and stewards of global order. Therein lies the truest tragedy of the DRC: the world’s commitment to the current status quo supersedes its willingness to care about a country that, simply put, has seldom had a chance to exercise self-determination or operate without violence and conflict erupting in one corner or another. 

How can we convince the world to care when it derives so much critical value from our plight? The Congolese diaspora must mobilize. Gone are the days when political demagogues can create unilinear narratives about what is actually taking place in our home. With the advent of digital technologies like TikTok and WhatsApp, Congolese people throughout our illustrious diaspora are taking the reins and determining for themselves what the future of their country will be through advocacy. How can we allow this story of incalculable loss and degradation to extend beyond our generation and tarnish the memory and identity of yet another Congolese generation? We have the means to speak truth to power and against the abhorrent violence brought on us by the Kagame regime and will do so knowing that each action we put forth brings us that much closer to justice. 

We are highly educated and dispersed all over the global community, occupying spaces in government, private organizations, and world-class higher education facilities. The violence that drove us out of our countries is drawing us back in, but this time with a fury never yet seen before. Our intellectual capital, emotional exhaustion, and determination for a brighter narrative of our country will propel us to change the trajectory of the DRC. As the descendants of giants from the Kingdom of Kongo and with a country endowed to be the envy of all those around it, we can and will change the story of our home. So, how can we respond to the apathy that we see regarding our country? We act and remind the world that the time for apathy has run out. With artists like Tems canceling her performance in Kigali to be in solidarity with the Congolese to the calls on Arsenal, PSG, and the NBA to reconsider their partnerships in Rwanda: we are determined to make the world hear and see us. 

As the world’s largest producer of Cobalt and Africa’s [largest producer](https://www.trade.gov/country-commercial-guides/democratic-republic-congo-market-overview#:~:text=Most%20of%20the%20country's%20mineral,metal%20used%20in%20battery%20production.) of Copper, our geopolitical positioning is vital for the global green energy transition set to take place: the stability and prosperity of our nation is vital for the global economy. Gone are the days of looking the other way as the violence rages on. We are the children of those who had to flee and have become empowered to act and act we will.

