The two hour marathon is known in sport as one of if not the most challenging achievement. Africans are at the forefront of this conversation, and the mark finally looks in reach for athletes around the world.

The sporting world was set ablaze with Kelvin Kiptum’s recent marathon performance. With Kenyan and overall East African dominance in long distance races and marathons, it may have been no surprise to many that Kelvin Kiptum ran a blazing 2:00:35. His time was 34 seconds faster than that of the prolific Elliud Kipchoge who ran a 2:01:09 at the 2022 Berlin Marathon. With this only being Kiptum’s third marathon, the 23 year old looks to be one to have the marathon world entertained for years to come. The world of long distance for so long has been looking for someone to break the 2 hour marathon threshold… and after Kiptum’s performance it looks to be more plausible than ever.

For so long it looked an unimaginable feat for a mortal man to ever run a sub 2-hour marathon. However, it now seems only a matter of time before that record will be broken in an official capacity. Human records and physical achievements are in essence made to be eclipsed by the next generation of sportsmen and sportswomen. With it being a cliche that, “records are meant to be broken,” it is still the epitome of why people watch sport. The awe and wonder that in every moment greatness may be witnessed. That in every twist and turn that it is possible to witness a moment few ever will.

This was the same sentiment experienced when Elliud Kipchoge did the nearly impossible and ran a 1:59:40 marathon at the 2019 Ineos Challenge. Unfortunately, this couldn’t be accounted for in an official capacity as there were many caveats that a normal marathon wouldn’t incorporate such as pacemakers. However, this was the inception and awakening among marathon lovers that a sub 2 hour marathon was not a matter of if but rather when it would be broken. In terms of putting a 2 hour marathon into perspective, that is roughly running each mile at a pace of 4 minutes and 34 seconds. This is incredible as the global average mile pace for men is 10:02 min/mile and for women is 11:17 min/mile. This is simply for one singular mile. Kelvin ran nearly six minutes faster than the average male, per mile, and sustained that for 26.2 miles. To achieve this was not by luck or coincidence, maybe quite obviously.

If we are to compare both Elliud and Kelvin’s rigorous regimens, Eliud Kipchoge runs between 180 to 220 kilometers. This is roughly 100 to 135 miles a week. However, Kelvin Kiptum is between 250 and 280 kilometers (i.e between 155 and 173 miles). He is even known to at times surpass 185 miles a week. One of the most important keys to Kiptum’s success could be linked to the fact that he never takes days off. Monday to Sunday and Sunday to Monday like clockwork while running at blistering speeds. So the only question that remains for this young man’s career is…can he stand the test of time? Only time will tell, but things are certainly looking like he is only just getting started in what could be a very decorated and legendary running career.

So what is to come for the running world? The Boston Marathon is creeping near with it being run on the 15th of April. As well as the Berlin Marathon next fall in September. Many are enticed to see if there will be any newcomers to step up to the plate and carry the mantle these historic east african runners have of making these events their own personal playground. Kelvin Kiptum will certainly be a name many will have their eyes on in the upcoming months, as the world at large is excited to see how he will continue to stack up against the new and growing competition. As we all know, sports are fickle and everyone can be replaced. So, keep a watchful eye on who will take center stage in some of the biggest races the world has to offer.

## Sources

[_How Fast Was Kelvin Kiptum’s Men’s Marathon World Record?_](https://olympics.com/en/news/how-fast-was-kelvin-kiptums-world-record-2023-chicago-marathon-split-times)

Szyk, Bogna, and &#321;ucja Zaborowska. “Marathon Pace Calculator.” [_Omni Calculator_](www.omnicalculator.com/sports/marathon-pace#:~:text=You%20would%20need%20to%20keep,marathon%20in%20precisely%202%20hours), 5 June 2023,

[_What Is the Average Running Speed? - Runner’s World_](www.runnersworld.com/uk/training/beginners/a44826741/average-running-speed/), Accessed 22 Oct. 2023.
