_Whose Streets_ puts forward a compelling comparison between organization and spontaneity; self-movement of the masses and politicians; and black people and the police force. This film review first asks what spontaneity does, what it creates, but also how it manifests danger. Further, it questions organization and what role that plays, and the misunderstanding associated with a lack of organization. Finally, it tackles the question of what role Ferguson plays with regards to the Black radical tradition.

Spontaneity creates unity, it sparks passion in a movement, but with regards to black radicalism, spontaneity from black civilians is responded to with spontaneity from police, and this creates a frustration in the black community that has an adverse effect on its mission with protest. At minute 26, while the police are pushing civilians back, we see the development of a “You go home”<sup>1</sup> chant in response to the police officers instructions for the civilians to go home. This spontaneity uplifted the whole crowd, allowed them to stand their ground on their property and protest peacefully, in unison. It is this shared collective feeling that emerges under a spontaneous situation such as the one presented here. However, the problem with this spontaneity is that it is met with spontaneity from the police. We see the policemen shortly after this scene shooting rubber bullets and fireworks at the civilians who are chanting “You go home”<sup>2</sup> peacefully from their backyards, from their own property. It raises an irony in that the police are protecting property over people when black peaceful demonstration takes place on public grounds, but when black demonstration is taking place on black owned property, they forget about this sacred protection of property. We see a man frantically shouting “This my shit”<sup>3</sup> exerting his frustration at the police's actions on his own property. It is this anger, this irritation, that leads to the looting, the rioting, the rash but justified reactions black folk have to this continued oppression. The governor makes the decision to bring in the national guard and we see a twitter message shortly after this stating “the police have gone rogue.”<sup>4</sup> If a policeman is shooting tear gas, rubber bullets, and smoke cans at civilians, one cannot expect all civilians to take a step back and not respond; someone will pick up that can and throw it back. The spontaneity from individuals, leads to the spontaneity from police, which leads to double-edged violence.

This brings us back to the inevitable dilemma of spontaneity. Though it fosters a feeling that organization could never achieve, it fails to mitigate the violence that comes from it. The positive effects of spontaneity arise not only within the protestors and their devotion, but also in the government’s reaction. The film shows that the anger within the people, followed by the aggressive reaction from the police caused the justice department to begin an investigation into whether Ferguson police had a racial bias within the police department. Spontaneity caused that investigation. Nonetheless, organization can also generate spontaneity, along with an organized people.

We turn to see the effect of organization in the Ferguson October weekend when people flew from around the world to Ferguson to protest police for the weekend. Even when the NAACP president is speaking, at an organized rally, spontaneity takes over in the chant “Let the young people speak”<sup>5</sup> that took off leading to significantly more passion in the audience. An organization came into an area where they have never had to experience the struggle, making a speech as though they had lived in the area their whole lives, and the residents of Ferguson were pushed to the side. As soon as the heart of Ferguson was brought back in to speak, in Teff Poe, as soon as the audience was hearing the words of hurt coming out of his mouth, from an unprepared speech, a spontaneous moment, it regenerated the hurt the crowd had. It created an opportunity for them to experience the spirit that brought them out in the first place. It seemed as though with this spontaneity, the hierarchical nature of these events, with someone like the NAACP president representing the entire black community, fades. The director cleverly mirrors this scene of Teff Poe speaking to the audience, with the passion in the hearts of the protests throughout the weekend fighting against injustice. This could be an attempt to demonstrate the effects of spontaneity - the devotion that comes hand in hand with it.

We cannot, however, associate spontaneity with a lack of organization. It is not because of spontaneity that the looting and rioting happens, and it is not because of a lack of organization. _Whose Streets_ attributes it to the police force riling up the crowd. Around minute 10, before police presence, the black individuals were mourning and marching, in unity. After the police start preventing that, frustration boils, a sentiment of discontent sits in the Ferguson residents and they turn to these extreme tactics. This frustration is seen when a woman is filming, in minute 13, and a policeman will not let her walk through a police protected area; he redirects her towards the dangerous looting and rioting areas to get to her car, almost as if he was too scared to let her pass. Police officers are there to protect but this officer purposefully redirected the woman towards the violence, as if she was the one creating it. At that point one must ask the question: why not join in on the looting and the rioting if that seems to be expected of her? We hear her display this anger and frustration when she exclaims “and now I'm mad”<sup>6</sup> as a result of the policeman’s actions. This police action that causes the rioting and the looting is further seen when T Dubb O mentions how they put “property over people”<sup>7</sup> when the police showed up to a peaceful candlelight protest (civilians simply holding up candles) and ‘boxed them in’ and forced them into a quick trip plot. This boxing in, during a moment of mourning and reflection, drives the frustration that translates into actions such as looting and rioting; unnecessary enforcement from the police drives it. I interpreted this movie as trying to show what spontaneity does not do just as much as what it does. It does not cause violence, it does not cause looting, it does not cause rioting, and it does not cause a lack of organization. It does, however, show the difference between self-movement of the masses and politicians.

While in the barber shop discussing the issues the black community faces, a man points out “We are having this conversation, and the people who need to be held accountable aren't here.”<sup>8</sup> By those held accountable he means the government. As he discusses before, “they spend almost 1 trillion dollars on the military…they would rather have tanks and tear gas than feed everyone.”<sup>9</sup> This opens the discussion of politicians playing the role of appeasers instead of action-takers. The director juxtaposes the scene of Obama addressing the nation on the podium, with the uprising seen as a result of no conviction of officer Darren Wilson. We see the contrast between self-movement of the masses and politicians. Obama, despite being a black man, despite experiencing all the prejudice the United States has to offer especially during his campaign, stood on the stage and pointed to the rule of law as the most important thing in the country, while peaceful protestors were being tear gassed and shot with rubber bullets. It further enlightens us on the very sad contrast we see in the United States. The more you appease the white man, the more you adhere to their wishes, the more your character is admired. However, the less you appease the white man, the less you adhere to their wishes and keep on your chains, the more likely you are to create change. It was the protests that led to Darren Wilson facing a jury; it was the protests that led to the investigation into Ferguson’s police department; it was the protests that led to the police chief resigning. _Whose Streets_ displays that the self-movement of the masses, through spontaneity, but with an organized people, generates change. Politicians, like the NAACP president, like President Obama, take advantage of that change to make a speech about it and praise that self-movement. Notwithstanding, some literature I have come across might not support that.

In _What is Socialism?_ by Tim Hector, he concludes by referencing Kwayana's speech in which he says a socialist state can be created through the joint forces of the working masses in a revolt (peaceful or violent) but also through elections.<sup>10</sup> _Whose Streets_ seems to question that notion. The black folk in Ferguson are revolting against elected officials, they are calling for an uprooting of a system, not for an alternate form of elections, countering Kwayana’s statement. With regards to the black radical tradition, Ferguson seems to exemplify what the likes of C.L.R. James and others are describing. In _Radical America_, James writes “We say the Negro struggle, the independent Negro struggle, has a vitality and a validity of its own.”<sup>11</sup> During this whole passage he discusses how the Negro struggle is a concept in itself, with grassroots in intself. Ferguson is a demonstration of these grassroots. They are not calling for marxism, or leninism or any kind of theory altercation, they are simply calling for black freedom, black equality. That is the definition of the struggle having a vitality and validity of its own. We see this in **Whose Streets** in what the residents wear, black freedom shirts; and what the residents say, “it is our duty to fight for our freedom.”<sup>12</sup> _Whose Streets_ tells us the story of the black radical tradition, of the power of spontaneity, of the dangers of spontaneity, and of the necessity for protest.
