During the third week of the fall quarter, the UChicago Pan-Afrik Student Coalition (PASC) collaborated with other cultural organizations to produce Congo Week. From October 14-19th, members of the UChicago community participated in events, workshops, and screenings to celebrate Congo and its rich culture. Congo Week also served as a chance to raise money for Living Hope International Ministries through their Dreamcatcher Humanitarian Program and their current efforts to support displaced families and all others touched by the volatile circumstances currently in Congo. Through increased violence and natural disasters in regions throughout DRC, Dreamcatcher is providing vital services like healthcare, emergency services, and mental health and wellness care. 

On Friday, the 19th and final day of Congo Week, students gathered to watch Lumumba, a film based on the DRC's first-ever Prime Minister, Patrice Lumumba. The movie was set in the 1960s when Congo was in the midst of its independence battle against the Belgians. The film touched on vital topics like nationalism, government, and the often-forgotten complexities of the challenges of decolonization for many nations worldwide. Lumumba's ultimate downfall is shown in the movie as an example of how strong political ideals and the power behind African movements can be tarnished due to external manipulation and tampering from fearful powers worldwide. 

Events like these are vital as Congo faces a crisis within their borders. In the recent aftermath following the December 2023 elections, there have been clashes between two military groups, M23 and the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF). M23 is a primarily Tutsi ethnic group, while ADF is an Islamist rebel group affiliated with ISIS. These groups are some of the over one hundred armed non-state rebel groups scattered throughout the country. Clashes between groups dramatically increased in February 2024, further exacerbating the dire humanitarian crisis and sparking outrage by observers in the international community. In March 2024, the UN published a report detailing the number of internally displaced people in the DRC is up to 7.2 million.

The DRC is also experiencing a massive humanitarian crisis. Currently, there are issues in the cobalt mining industry in the country with allegations of human trafficking and child labor violations. Of the 255,000 Congolese citizens working in cobalt mines, approximately 40,000 are children working in extreme circumstances to produce 60% of the world's cobalt supply. Much of this work is informal, with artisanal mines scattered throughout the country's southern region, or "copperbelt" as it's referred to. These issues have been branded as "modern-day slavery" due to the harsh conditions which workers have been economically alienated and forced to work under. Many workers perform these tasks with their hands and earn less than **$2 daily**. The DRC has felt the human and environmental costs of cobalt mining. These mines have destroyed the DRC's landscape due to the large amount of trees being cut down. There are also complications with air pollution, and the water surrounding the mines is contaminated with the toxic runoff from materials involved in the mining process. 

Issues like this sparked PASC to begin Congo Week and spread awareness. While sitting down with one of the organizers, Inilouwa Aloba, she touched on the importance of bringing this issue to the forefront of people's minds throughout campus. In our conversation, we reflected on the impact of Congo Week.

**What was the inspiration behind the event?**

Congo Week is something Friends of the Congo started and has been going on for many years. We wanted to bring it to UChicago to shed light on issues in the country today.

**What kinds of events did you guys hold?**

We held three events. The first was an art event during which people made pamphlets, which will be distributed. There was a speaker named Maurice Maxwell Koluku (working on the ground in DRC). They were working for Dreamcatcher. The environmental task force discussed what was happening and the cobalt mines' ecological repercussions. This event was my favorite since we discussed greenwashing in the country.

**What kind of impact do you want to leave?**

We want people to be aware of what's going on in Congo. We'd like people to eventually boycott Apple and continue engaging with our organization and others to educate themselves. Some people aren't even aware that there are two Congos (the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Congo). We plan on hosting more events this year, so be on the lookout.

While I am not sure what solutions are best to solve the turmoil experienced in the DRC, it is very encouraging to see the UChicago and more significant international communities doing what they can to raise awareness and address the issues.